- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we'll configure our build server Jenkins to include JDK 11.
We'll also create a Java 11 build
for our project within Jenkins.
Adding a build for the new Java version
allows our continuous integration processes
to support both versions of the language at once.
In order to get started,
we'll need to configure Jenkins to include the new JDK.
To do that, we can click on the manage Jenkins link
and within our options,
we'll select the global tool configuration.
Within this pane, you'll notice a section for the JDK.
If we click on the JDK installations,
it's going to list all of the JDKs available
for our Jenkins server.
Currently, we have one JDK installed for Adopt Open JDK 8.
We'll need to add another JDK,
so I'm going to go ahead and click on the add JDK button
and here's where we'll add Adopt Open JDK 11.
The first thing that we'll need to do
is uncheck this install automatically button,
and then we're going to specify the name
as Adopt Open JDK 11.
Next, we'll need to point to where this version of the JDK
is located on our workstation.
To do that I'm going to open a new file Explorer window
and then navigate to C, program files, Adopt Open JDK,
and then here, I find JDK 11.
If I navigate into that folder,
I can then click within the toolbar
to copy the path to this directory.
I'll navigate back to Jenkins at this point
and paste the directory into the Java home option.
Once that's in place, I can go ahead and hit save
and I now have JDK 11 configured with my Jenkins server.
The next thing we'll need to take a look at is our builds.
So if we navigate into the H Plus Sports API folder,
we'll find a build for our API.
Hopping into that build, we can check out its configuration
by clicking on the configure link on the left.
As we scroll down through the configuration,
you'll notice that we haven't explicitly specified a JDK.
We want to do that now that we have multiple versions
of the JDK on our Jenkins server.
So for this build, we're going to stick with JDK 8.
So I'll select Adopt Open JDK 8
and then we can continue navigating
through our configuration.
You will notice that the source code for this project
is being pulled from GitHub
and we have integration with that platform.
As we continue to scroll down,
you'll see that we are instructing Maven on the goals
that we would like to see executed.
In this section, we also need to instruct Maven
to use our Java 8 profile.
To do that, we add the dash P flag
and then we specify the name of the profile.
In our case, that's Java 8.
Alright, scrolling down.
That looks like all the changes we'll need to make.
So I'm going to go ahead and save the changes to our build
and then we're going to hop back up
to the H Plus Sports API folder
and we're going to create a new project here for Java 11.
So I'm going to click on new item on the left side,
and here we're going to create a new item.
It's going to be named H Plus Sports API dash JDK 11.
And as we scroll down through the options,
we're not going to create any of the projects
that are available.
Instead, we're just going to mimic off of the existing job
by copying its configuration.
So here in the copy from text box,
I'll just specify H Plus Sports API,
and then I can go ahead and click on OK.
This is going to create a copy of the job we just looked at.
Now we need to make some changes for this job
to build our application using JDK 11.
So the first thing we'll want to do
is switch the JDK that it uses,
and then we'll scroll down
and change the profile that Maven will use.
So instead of Java 8, we want to use the Java 11 profile,
and that concludes our changes.
And at this point,
if we look in our H Plus Sports API folder,
you'll notice that we have two projects.
One to build our application using Java 8,
and then another to build our application using Java 11.
Now I mentioned the Jenkins server and the builds
are integrated with GitHub.
So what I'm going to do is just make a small change
to our pom dot XML file.
And this is strictly so that we can have a code change
to push to GitHub.
Okay, that should be small enough.
I'm going to go ahead, save the file,
and then I'm going to commit the changes,
and then I'm going to go ahead
and push those changes up to GitHub.
There we see that the changes are pushed
and now let's navigate back to Jenkins,
and you'll notice, in a minute here,
that we're pulling GitHub with these two projects.
So once the changes are detected,
that will trigger two builds.
There we see the builds were triggered
and let's just hop in
and we can take a look at one of these builds
as it executes.
Here's our Java 8 build.
It looks like it completed successfully,
and now I will expect issues with our Java 11 build,
and we can see there were problems.
Let's hop in, take a look.
Once again, you can see that we are getting errors
that are related to the Java version
and some incompatibilities within our source code.
So we're going to have to fix those
as we migrate this system.